HRS Journal - "Cardboard Box"

A few days before Christmas of 2016, Espresso and Latte came home in cardboard boxes. He was dark, brown, and black, and she was an off-white harlequin. Both were maybe a year old or less. It was a long and challenging year, and only a couple of months since Mr. Bun passed away. Back then, I could still see him in his bundo, in the corner of the living room where his little castle was set up. We eleven years ago, and Mr. Bun kept growing on me more and more. The bond took on a whole new meaning when Mr. un became disabled for the last two and a half years of his life and required a whole new level of care just to stay clean and dry. We decided to carry on and make the best of it what we had.

None of us were ready for that one morning of October 2016. Mr. Bun suffered a stroke sometime during the night. My wife and I rushed him to the vet, but this part of our journey was ending. Shortly after, Mr. Bun was over the Rainbow Bridge. I like to imagine him rubbing shoulders with the ghost of American astronauts, other buns that left before time and always, no matter what, before their time.

To me, he was still here; sometimes, he is still here on one thought or another. Time did nothing to heal the loss, only fuzzied some memories. And here were two new buns, straight from the pound. It was a surprise, and I was surprised to see them. My wife arranged for their adoptions. My feelings were very conflicted on the subject.

But they were here. They didn't know anything about Mr. Bun. Now they had a forever home, of course. Trying to compartmentalize the feeling about Mr. Bun and the new arrivals have been difficult for a brief moment, and shortly it all gave way to "working the problem." Espresso and Latte were not replacements of any kind. They didn't make anything any better and didn't "fix" anything.  The heart breaks when it breaks and feels what it wants to feel. These two were here and weren't going back.

I don't want to think about what was in store for them at the pound. Now, they were safe.  They didn't set out to dethrone anybunny; they wanted to survive in this crazy world like the rest of us. They commenced adding new chapters to our stories. We continue to learn more about rabbits as they take on more significant and more prominent roles in our lives and become bigger and bigger inspirations.

We had lost Latte a couple of years later. She passed away in post-op after surgery to clean up an abscess on her left ankle. As hard as the losses are, they can't kill the desire to care. They bring into sharp focus the brevity of time we have with each other and bun another.

