X-Plus Bun - The Improbabilistic Sim

The mockup resembled a head of a beast. It looked like giant fish head rather than a spacecraft. And what happened to the rest of this fish? I moved forward, partly with apprehension, partly with confidence.  I had been following Abby, marching right in front of me. I give the giant fish head credit for my anxiety and Abby for a n\my false sense of security. I had asked myself how did Abby end up in this mess? I had no answer. After all, it was my friend at the department of Theoretical Archeo-Engineering that had talked me into volunteering for this experiment. Part of me felt like I've seen all of this before and part of me couldn't quite figure out which way was up or east, or west.

The sim had an elongated nose, rounded off, not very short, and not blunt either. On the very top of this "head" were several windows, two of which almost focused forward, so the mock up had the appearance of staring at us. I felt confused even more as the object seemed to be both familiar and strange at the same time. Abby stopped in place in front of me, and I almost run into her. She was looking at the ... face of that ... three stories high creature.

For a moment I questioned my decision to go along with this experiment, yet I was certain I wouldn't be able to get out of it. When my friend at the College of Theoretical Archeo-Engineering asked me to help with their project, I thought nothing of it. What could be the worst that could happen? I would probably kill a couple of weekends reading some very important papers and that would be it. I learned later that the engineers and students from the aerospace Cathedral were involved too. Almost on a dare. They were just morbidly curious what the historians came up with could be built. 

The historians wondered, quite seriously, if a certain type of mythical creatures could develop space faring capabilities. With the help of several departments, they had ended up with the design and mockup staring us in the face. I stood there for a moment, gaping at the bulky head, while Abby marched nonchalantly toward the creature.

We ingressed through a round opening on the port side of the simulator and entered something of a spacious room. I guess that space served as crew quarters or a storage space. I could see how this could be used for experiments as well.  I'll never forget my first day at that sim and the time I saw what the historians and engineers came up with for a bathroom. Maybe they were running log on funding for this project, or maybe somebun had uncontrollable comedic tendencies. We may never know. The space latrine was built into a tall locker. When I looked inside, I saw pretty standard space litter bin. The only trouble was, it was designed to accommodate pellets the size of my head. Somebun had to be full of it indeed.

There were two aluminum ladders, on each side of the first deck, leading up to the flight deck on the second level. Space was tight and moving through the opening to the deck was awkward. It got easier over time but never became comfortable. 

Abby was already strapped into the commander's seat, checklist in paw, starting about her routine. I tried to pick up my pace and ended up knocking my head on the seat, or the overhead switch panels. It never failed, the faster I tried to move, the slower I went. But eventually, I would find myself sitting in the pilot's seat, strapped in, with the headset on.

We would try to go through the normal approach and landing profile. It was a strange bird that required about thirty degrees nose down pitch attitude during the approach. That's pretty darn steep! It had no engine, s it could only glide. Well, it glided about as well as well as a frying pan, but what did I care or know?

When it was Abby's turn to fly, my job was pretty simple. Throw a few switches, arm the landing gear deployment, drop the wheels, then arm and deploy the drag chute once we were on the ground. I would watch and monitor other flight parameters, but that was pretty much it. My job was to make Abby look good. So, it was like a day off at home. The sim supervisor started the session

The sim supervisor started the session, and all was going well. I could never get used to how the simple things were done here. To get the landing gear ready to be lowered, I had to arm the system by punching in a numeric code on a keypad then I had to enter another command to do the actual landing gear extension. It a real head scratcher, but like I said before, it wasn't my project and not my money. All was going well as Abby kept the vehicle on the glide slope. She rolled us out of turn and right on the extended centerline of the long runway. It was quite unnerving to watch us diving for the ground. How many hours practice would it take to get used to this perspective?

Abby called for the gear extension, and I hit the "execute" button on the keypad. Nothing had happened. I punched in "4", then "2", then the "execute" keys again. Same thing, nothing happened, we had no landing gear. Abby didn't skip a beat. She did a few, gentle "S" turn to bleed of some of the extra energy we carried. Even though this was a sim, my noggin forgot all about it and confused the simulation with the real thing and felt uneasy. 

I had armed the drogue parachute for deployment and waited. We had come in hot and floated quite a bit down the runway before the belly of the craft made contact with the tarmac. The second that happened I dumped the chute. We had nothing, no chute to slow us down. Abby did her best to control the craft with the rudder for as long as possible. Eventually, we would have to grind to a halt, even if we had to take out some shrubs and palmetto bushes past the end of the runway. 

But we kept on going; we were not slowing down one bit. I saw the markers by the side of the runway showing how much runway is left as we whizzed by at an alarming speed. We had not slowed down! Instinctively, my feet tried to hit the brakes, but of course, there were no breaks. The end of the runway approached, and we went past it and into the rough terrain. We kept on going. 

That's when things went scary. Instead of a rough ground in front of us, I began to see a dark, blue horizon, hazy and far away from us as if we were looking at the sea. Suddenly, the ground ended, and we flew off a cliff. The craft pitched nose down again, and I was staring at a dark beach with a raging ocean below. My paws started to tingle, and the fur all over my body bristled. My front paws felt frozen in cold cramps, and I felt my body lift off the seat. I felt the pressure of the safety harness holding me in place. I could see the white caps on the waved below brow rapidly. My gut felt sick, and the goosebumps were crawling up and down my stiff neck. The impact was here.

I jumped. I jumped, and I was sitting on my pad, panting. Outside, the bright sun was in full command of the day. I could feel my heart rate returning to normal as I tried to wipe my mouf with my paws. My hind paws felt so wobbly, thought I would topple over. I haired Abby gallop into the room.
"Are you OK?" Abby asked. 
"I hope so. I dreamed about that sim of hoomin space craft again." I said.
Abby sat up distraught. My nightmares about hoomins were starting to get to her.