X-Plus Bun - Retrofire, Pt. 18
Penny floated toward the mess hall and found it empty except for an old lop, reading something and sipping a beverage. After a moment, Penny noticed that this guy had been around the meadow a few times. He wore thick rimmed spectacles, and his patchy coast had seen shinier stars. She finally recognized the stranger as Dr. Hopnom, the legendary quantum biologist. Penny's paws began to tremble. She was glad she couldn't binky right now. Otherwise, she would hit it so hard; she would splatter against the wall. But, she held it together. Penny took her time retrieving a sippy bar of something from the dispenser. She just wanted to cool off before approaching the professor. Penny gave up finally and floated toward the distinguished elder bun.
"Dr. Hopnom? My name is Penny; it's such an honor to meet you!" Penny barely managed to articulate her introduction as she extended her left paw. The professor flinched, for a split second, as if something horrible just happened, his nose twitched in horror, almost imperceptibly. He regained his composure so fast though that Penny almost didn't notice the shift back and forth. Almost. She was too excited to dwell on it; all her senses told her that she was in the presence of a living legend.

The elder bun slowly extended his paw and said with a frail voice, "Glad to meet you but I'm afraid you have mistaken me for somebun else. I'm just one of the electricians here, my friends here call me ... Volty. If you would excuse me, I really should be on the flight deck."

He pushed off, a little too hard, missed the paw rail to get into the tunnel leading to the flight deck and inadvertently tried to scramble in a panic, before grabbing another handle. Then he was finally gone.

Penny was stunned. She kept going over his words repeatedly, she understood the words, but the situation made no sense. That bun had to be Dr. Hopnom. She would bet Freddie's whiskers on it! She remembered his voice and the scrappy patches of fur on the top of his head. She was surprised to see him here because he never had much interest in space travel and he sure didn't move about here like a proper crew member of a space-faring craft. "Electrician my foot!" thought Penny.  She furrowed her brows and narrowed her eyes. She stayed that was a bit too long, and she noticed her mouf was hurting. Penny took a long, slow sip of her beverage.

She glanced at the countdown clock. She had plenty of time to do whatever she pleased. After a short discussion with herself, visiting the payload bay sounded like a decent idea. So she went looking for it, and after getting lost a few times in the main tunnel, Penny found the bay.

The bay was quiet and appeared to be empty. There was only one bun, probably a loadmaster, securing one of a half a dozen small containers, Penny floated through the eerily cavernous bay. Once she got past the rectangular containers, she saw something odd. Three, large, orange bio-hazard cryo-capsules fastened to a cargo platform. She got sick to her gizzard. Now she floated along the wall toward the large, capsules for a closer look. She tried to conceal her breathing, afraid of being found out. She pulled herself around the pills, trying to see what were the make and model of the containers. And she got a little sicker. These were the old, models, known for malfunctioning in a rather grim way. She thought they were pulled from the market ages ago because sometimes the would disintegrate whatever they were supposed to preserve and protect.

Countdown alarm jarred Penny back to the immediate reality. She felt how under her blue combinaison, her ears felt like they were on fire. For a second she thought that she'd get locked here, but then she heard the noises made by some bun still working to secure some cargo. As quickly and quietly as she could, Penny worked her way back to her cabin. Freddie was up from his nap and not looking anymore hopeful.

"Freddie, on that manifest, do you remember seeing Dr. Hopnom? I could swear I run into him in the mess hall, but he insisted he's some electrician here. He couldn't even get around that well. He looked more like somebun on his first space flight than a proper bunstronaut!"

Freddie's face lit up. He gazed at the ceiling for a moment, trying to recall whom he saw on the manifest and finally said, "No, I don't think so, I would  have remembered somebun like him."

"Right," said Penny, "and guess what? They have three cryo-pods in the cargo bay. The old kinds, remember how from time to time they would melt whatever they had  in them?"

Now Freddie was fully awake. Another countdown alarm blared, and Freddie and Penny scrambled to buckle down for the imminent undocking from the hub.

***

I was getting really bored in my isolation pod. Te debriefings here subsided, and the tests ended. It was a good break. I still had no idea how Hopper and Mel were doing, everybun refused to answer any of my questions.

I'm not sure how I got the idea to mess with the pod's control system, I just didn't have anything else to do. I got curious. The entertainment system here can act as an access terminal for different maintenance functions and troubleshoot any system anomalies. So, I sat there and played with it to see if I could get outside of the pod system to glean something about the broader, station system. After a couple of days snooping around, to my amazement, I discovered that I could gain access to the pod as an administrator! Part of me wanted to say, "Hey, guys, you should really change those default security settings on the pods!" But I didn't. Instead, I did the proper security audit and made myself an admin, with biometric authentication and all! Now I could do whatever I wanted with the pod. As a matter of fact, I had a terminal to access the rest of the station. And all of its systems.

I found the locations of Hopper and Mel. At least they were doing OK, or at least as good as could be expected under these conditions.
