X-Plus Bun - Retrofire, Pt. 21
I spent the next couple of days snooping about the station, trying to find out the best way to disable the station. A strange thing took place. Time seemed to melt away as I dove deeper and deeper into the station's systems. I forgot to eat or drink and hardly moved from my spot. When the orderlies came by for their rudimentary visit, they almost startled me to death; every time. The sound of opening door violently jagged me to the surface from the depth of almost alternate reality. I was learning more the station than I thought was possible.

I discovered that I could trigger a shutdown of the weight balancing system of the psedo-gravity mechanism the hospital used. To make things more interesting, if the sys admins tried to stop the rotation of the entire system, they would only accelerate it more. That would leave them with a very few options, they only viable one one being the immediate shutdown of all system. To foil my little mischief, they would have to act immediately, without any delay. I knew that all I had going for me was the good old "it never did THAT before stupified reaction of the admins to the surprise.hat was the good news in my estimation. What worried me was the funny feeling I had in my gut. No, there was nothing wrong with my plan. Yes, it was risky and a bit far fetched, but how could it not be? what worreid me was my incesent exploration of the station's systems and sub-systems, and the pace at which I was moving through them. It frazled me whenever I stopped to think about it during my forced noming breaks. It would be one thing if I were involved in the design of the labirinth I was exploring or if such designs were my speciality, or even a point of interest, but as far as I can attest, one of thsoe conditions applied to me. 


On one paw, it led me to question who I think I was, on the ohter I was glad for it, because it would let me bust out of here that much quicker. The question still hung over me though, where exactly would I go after the break out? Keep in mind, at that time I had no idea that two  vessels were converging on St. Cinnamon. 

I don't know exactly what time I run out of energy to dig into the stations systems any deeper. I was way past what I needed to know to do the job. I didn't  so much as go to sleep, but rather passed out. I didn't check on Hopper or Mel. for some reason I wasn't  worried about them anymore.

The sound of the doors sliding open for the orderlies bringing breakfast salad and paying their big brother's respects woke me up. I sat up strain, even though my body screamed to twice as much sleep time as I had gotten that night. When 
you're not up for their visit, they think your temperature will tell them something about why you're not up. so they proceed to check your temperature. I don't like it. No, they don't check your temperature like THAT; not anymore. They take pictures of you and strap gizmos to you. I don't  my pcitures taken and I don't like their gizmos. So it's easier to just sit up.

I had dispensed my usual  stink eye to both of the orderlies and enjoyed some salad with  the harshest frown I could muster. They  were used to that and cleared out as soon as they could. I went back to sleep. Next time I got up, I finished the leftover salad and went to work. 

I didn't have to completely  turn off the weight balancer. I only had to slow it dow by tricking it into thinking it had  alot less weight to balance. As the balaner slowed down, the system would detect the anomaly and tried to compensate for it by trying to speed a up the balancer. Well, the system would send the right command, but the component responsible  for its execution wouldn't work anymore they way it was supposed to. It would slow down the balancer even more.

Whoever worked that shif in the controll room that day or night, would try to fix the problem manually. again, he or she would do the right thing, as the manual instructed them to procede and would attempt to bring up the speed of the balancer.  By now, the balancer couldn't slow down anymore. It would think it was supposed ot stop and that's what it would start to do. 

Of course, no bun has seen such a combination of failures and  while they would try to figure out what had happened, the system would go trying to fix the problem. Since it couldn't  make heads or tails out of the puzzle either,  it would opt for the easy way out by initiating a shutdown of the station. 

Since the part of the hospital equipped with the now broken centrifugal gravity system threatened to break up the rest of the structure, the system would sound an evacuation alarm and would start shutting down and isolating sections of the hospital. For the hospital, going into full emergency mode would mean  getting help from the outside wold become one of its highest priorities. The hospital would break its radio silence. 

I left my pod as the mayhem started to froth and went looing for Hopper. He was waiting for me. 
"You know, Major; when it rains it pours, I bet you the ventilation system is about to have a very bad day" said Hopper as he winded at me. I was not surprised.

The two of us went on to look for Mel. He greeted us with a smile.
"Gents, it would be awful if some airlocks started to leak, wouldn't it?" wondered Mel. 

Hopper and I groughed and nodded in approval as we kept on moving toward the shuttle deck.