X-Plus Bun - The X-Ray Array

Abby and I were in the middle of a checkers game when all the alarms went off, and the ship sounded collision. Abby pushed off immediately to suit up while I sealed off and secured our cabin. Until we heard the "all clear" signal, we would continue to prepare. The moment I got to my locker we felt the "collision." Something collided with the Buzzard, and we felt and heard dull clang as it echoed through the ship. I paused. Abby carried on with her suit and looked at me with scorn. I floated to our little comm terminal and pulled up a status report of our craft. As I suspected, something did a hard dock with us. It was Freddie and his trawler, The Morsel. 

I called the flight deck and asked: "Do we have a collision or Freddie docked extra hard?"
"It's Freddie. Stand by, we'll sound all clear as soon as the auto scans complete," answered Molly, looking peeved. Even if the ship turned out OK, there would be a lot of paperwork to do. 

After a short while, Molly downgraded the emergency to a "caution" level, so Abby and I went back to our checkers game. Out of curiosity, we connected to Freddie's flight deck and asked him about what happened. He thought some control thrusters misfired. He wasn't too happy about that. In the end, it meant a weekend of filing reports and other nonsense. Molly simmered down a bit. At first, she thought, we all did to be honest, that it was one of Freddie's practical jokes. 

Once the situation was under control, we gathered for dinner and got down to business. Yes, business, because magically, Freddie procured a substantial quantity of fresh carrot tops and nutriberries. He said he had a lot more of the stuff on board the Morsel, but it would cost us. 

He wanted all the x-ray machines from our last salvage job. 

We sampled the offerings. Pancake and Abby had seconds or thirds. Freddie felt really bad about that hard dock and did everything he could to ease the tensions. Freddie even vacuumed all the little bit and pieces of carrot tops floating about the room. The last thing he wanted was to clog up our air filters. He knew Ava would scorn him into changing them. Yes, Ava's stare down looks had almost magical powers, and Freddie knew better than to test her.

When Abby had enough, she planted her feet into foot restraints and folder her paws across her chest. Her eyebrows took on a quizzical look of curiosity and disbelief. After a moment of contemplative silence, she asked, "and what exactly do you plan on doing with those machines? And how did you know we even  had them?"

Freddie cleared his throat and looked around the room uneasily, yet relieved.
"You see, I have this old barge, parked in a geostationary orbit, behind the dark side of the moon. I'm assembling a sort of a radio station from those machines. I thought it's rather unfortunate that we only have radio telescopes 'listening' for x-ray signals. Wouldn't it be great for a change to transmit something on the x-ray frequencies?"

"You what again?" asked Molly, trying to ascertain that all the words she just heard meant what she thought they meant. 
"OK, I'm blasting music out into space with the help of old x-ray machines. I have an array of them going, and I keep adding to it. So I could really use the machines you've got. Give my your playlist, and I'll play in on the array next week. 

Molly cracked up and asked, "and how are you powering, that, you know, whatever you call it?"
"Plutonium, don't ask." said Freddie.
"You should try disdanium; twice as vicious." quipped Pancake. Joye, floating in the back looked puzzled, unsure why they girls were picking on Freddie.

I was still noming the nutriberries and couldn't swallow them fast enough. Finally, with my mouf only half full I slobbered out trying to change the subject, "Good berries, delicious berries, Freddie. Definitely worth a couple of old machines. So, where did you get those berries?" Freddie grinned at me a that's all he would give up. 

After the last swallow, I wiped my mouf with the sleeve o my suit, like a space peasant and said, "How about a live performance, you know, hook a small orchestra to it or something. I'll buy some tickets." Abby gave me sideways look, but I only tossed one of those berries her way. She caught it in her mouf and chomped on it way too hard than was necessary. The berry gave up its juice with a pop, and tiny, sweet droplets flew in all directions. Anxious, Freddie blinked as Abby bared her teeth for a split second.
"But you're doing all the paperwork, even ours!" snapped Abby as she turned around and floated toward the flight deck. 

I said, "OK, Freddie, she doesn't like paperwork. Let's go and see what's in the cargo bay." I floated toward Freddie and clutched him in a bear hug. Off we went down the tunnel toward the cargo airlock.