X-Plus Bun - One With The Void - Part 1 of 3

My eyes bugged out. Something almost imperceptible jarred me out of slumber. Somehow, Abby slipped out of her sleeping bag and was free floating in our sleeping compartment, paws stretched out, drifting toward me. I watched as her head slowly closed in and bonked my nose. And she started the slow float back in the other direction. Once she had gotten away far enough to clear my paws, I pulled up the communications console. Something is unnerving in this environment about unfamiliar sensations. We were changing our trajectory, and our cargo bay was empty!

As soon as I could sneak out of the sleeping pod without disturbing Abby, I headed for the flight deck.

I became worried some more. Ava and Molly were hanging on to the consoles, whispering about something. I slowly floated in next to Ava on her right.
"Sorry, Major, we didn't mean to wake you up." said Molly quietly and continued, "We got an order to change out the trajectory and do an emergency rendezvous with some disabled freighter. We still don't know why. The funny thing is the center didn't declare an emergency, but they instructed us to proceed as if it was one. I had to drop the cargo. We put a couple of beacons on it somebun else can retrieve it later. I didn't want to wake up any bunny because we still have..." Molly paused as she tried to find the new trajectory data and the rendezvous timeline projections. 
"... there, about a day and a half before we even get close to it."

After a while, it dawned on me that it was the gentle cargo drop that rattled me because then it made no sense. I knew I couldn't go back to sleep now, so I stayed with Molly and Ava. Information trickled in slowly and only after intense prodding. As the rest of our crew woke up and we switched shifts, the exchanges between Abby and Pancake, and the Center became very abrasive. The Center insisted that all we had to do was to change the disabled ship's trajectory to a set of new parameters and we would be done. The official reason stated for this maneuver said that if the craft continued on its present course, it would collide with one of the repair hubs and then, most likely, it would collide with Earth. 

Well, of course, we wanted to be heroes. Who wouldn't want to save their grandma back on earth from inevitable disaster? It all sounded good until Pancake had Joey plot the new trajectory of the drifter. He checked number twice because they made no sense. The ship would burn up the sun. If that wasn't odd enough, we plotted the craft's current trajectory and discovered that it would only slingshot around the sun and fly out of the solar system. It would never hit the repair hub, and it would remain well clear of Earth. Mind you, we weren't supposed to make any contact with it, or board it, or try to figure out what had happened to it.  The Center didn't want us to try to fire the ship's orbital maneuvering engines either. They just wanted us to bump it a little and give it more speed. 

Once the stench of the situation became untenable, we got a hold of Freddie on board the Morsel and asked him for help in sorting it all out. 

Freddie came up empty-pawed, there was no trace of that ship anywhere in any of the any of the public records. The best we could do now was to wait until we came into visual contact with the drifter. We got caught up in discussing Freddie's upcoming art installation and other fun stuff. We killed more time prepping for an unexpected EBA. That was Joey's idea. In his opinion, EBA's make for a better life. If he could, Joye would do an EBA a day to keep the V.E.T. at bay.

When we finally established visual contact with the freighter, our agitation with the assignment went up a notch. This thing in front of us was tumbling around all three of its axis. There was no way we could or would attempt to dock with it. We raised Freddie again and put him the intercom. As our brainstorming session went on and on, I started to feel that fate might be playing us like a yo-yo. If we didn't care about this ship before, now we were becoming hell-bent on taking it apart, screw by screw, just because it would be almost impossible to do.

Pancake suggested that we turn one of our cutting probes into an umbilical probe. Maybe we could troubleshoot the ship's attitude control system? If we could stabilize that thing, we could probably dock with it. Molly wanted to cut the ship into pieces first and then inspect every cubic centimeter of it. After all, our Buzzard was a salvage vessel, and if there's one thing we are always ready for, it is cutting things apart.