X-Plus Bun - Retrofire, Pt. 27 - Epilogue

The deorbit flight always put me on edge, and this one was no different. Maybe Freddie's paranoia rubbed off on me badly enough to make this one feel even worse than any previous return. I remember this one story my great grandpa to the Nth power told me about a crew making a deorbit flight and dying because their craft suffered a thermal protection breach in one of the wings. Why would he tell me something like that, right before bedtime, when I was tiny? I would tell a story like that because that's just me, but my great grandpa? That's no way to raise your little ones. As if that wasn't bad enough, he kept scaring us with stories about these mythical createures called the "hoomins" who inhabited  our planet long, long ago and kep us as pets. That's wh would tellus when we wanted nanners instead of hay for dinner, "Eat your hay or the hoomins will get you at night." I'll spare you the recipes. 

Before we undocked from the Repair Hub, I stopped by the medical bay and checked on Dr. Hopnom. He was coming around and the doctors felt very optimistic about his full recovery. Freddie kept constant guard around him. I have no idea what threats or promises he made to the medical staff, but they tolerated him. We had found out much later that he was not as crazy as we had first imagined. 

Things kept looking up for us. Shortly after our return shuttle performed the deorbit burn, the repair Hub patched in a encrypted message from one of the maintenance vessels around Saturn. It was Beth, check of the Communications Engineering corps. I've not heard her voice in ages.

One of her crafts was out on a mission to refurbish a x-ray relay cluster when her crew discovered something strange. Something had disturbed the orbit of the strucutre and one of its modules was completely off line. for a while the whole thing kept rotating in a strange manner before stabilization system returned it to normal. Eventually its orbit returned to normal, but that one module stayed as dead as a doorknob. Whatever disabled that part of the facility also took out the part of the surveillance system that provided visual of the cluster's exterior. The self repair system didn't even try to repair the damage because to it, the module ceased to exist.

Well, when Beth's crew arrived, the picture cleared up but the mystery deepened. Something crashed into the module and became lodged between the main support trusses. at first they thought it was a piece of rock or a lump of iron and nickel, but that  couldn't be it. In this part of the Solar system, things like that travel much faster and at those velocities, a rock thing big would pulverize clean the entire module. This thing traveled very slowly. the wreckage looked more and more like a bun made object though. Some of its edges were too sharp and clean.

Finally, some bun mentioned the part of our story about sending our old training craft to act as a remote SOS beacon. It didn't take them long to put the two and two together. The mysterious scrap metal turned out our TR-Regis-3 trainer. further analysis of the wreckage revealed that the tiny craft suffered a fatal blow from a micro meteorite long before it go to Saturn.  the impact was gentle enough for the craft to remain intact. But its trajectory was altered enough that it drifted and crossed one of the asteroid belts and became mangeled beyond all recognition.  That's why it turned up so far away from the point we had hoped to park it around Saturn.  

The funny thing is, carbon dating placed the origin of the craft in the carboniferous period. In the end, they were able to scrape enough serial numbers from various bits and pieces of the wreckage to positively identify it as the TR-Regis-3.

Beth closed the message with a promise that she would come by for a visit on the next leave she gets. the news of the recovery of our trainer hit me like a brick. suddenly, I was grieving for the sad hunk of metal. I was grieving for us too, for Mel and Hopper even though we have had come out alive out of this adventure. it made no sense at all. 

The pilot had to prompt me twice for a response when she was going through the re-entry  checklist. I had my sun glare visor closed and no bu could see my face. I waved at them that I was OK, but of course that was not enough. I had to call out my response and I couldn't. The commanger looked at her pilot and stretched her neck to look at me. I finally gurgled a weepy OK through my clenched throat. 

The rest of the return flight was uneventful. Once we came into contact with the atmosphere, all I had to do was to enjoy the plasma show outside the windows. I began to enjoy the pull of gravity. This felt good, this was the real deal and there's  nothing you can do to "turn if off." It has your kister and it won't let go. Honest, organic gravity, the only kind a massive rock, the size of a planet has to offer, and you can feel it in your paws, your chest, and your gut. You appreciate breathing again after a few Gs of a reminder that it can be crushed out of you.

I'm glad to have all that behind me. At least for now. That awareness caused a physical reaction in my chest, one of relief and satisfaction. I pulled another wild strawberry off its stem and nomed it slowly. 

A couple weeks after our return home, a package arrived from Freddie. Wrapped in several layers of newspaper and magazine pages with articles about our Behemoth encounter, were a pair of gloves and booties. They were made from that special, sticky tactile "gecko toe" fabric. I put them on and run outside into our backyard. I took a hold of the trunk of our favorite apple tree and began to climb it. I went up it like a lizard! I found a couple of ripe apples and tossed them to Abby, who was looking at me a bit confused and petrified. She had to wonder if I had finally lost it and this is the day she would have to turn me over to a crew in white lab coasts.

Alas, the most exciting thing that happened that day was the fresh crumb cake we made together. Nothing beast a good apple crumb cake for dinner! After we finished the cake, we had a serious talk. 

I told Abby that I would like to go away for a couple of days. I think she was truly concerned for me. She called Pancake and told her about my plans. Pancake suggested that as long as I tell them exactly where I'm going and when I'm coming back, there's really no point worrying about it. It's not like they could do anything about it anyway. That's the trouble with grown buns, you can't just ground them because you're worried about them.

So here I am, sitting in the conopy of an old readwood tree. It must bave been two hundred fifty, or maybe even three hundred feet tall. Getting up here was an entire adventure  of its own. The climb up  the tree was slow. I had to watch my every step and look for parts of the trunk that were free of moss and liken. I I almost resorted to using a security line, but in the end I just used my paws.  Another tricky part of the climb was remembering which way I went so I could trace my steps on the way down. 

First, I thought that I will try to climb as high as I possibly could, but then I came to a flat spot in the canopy. At the very top, part of the top collapsed and formed the base of a little meadow. It was  a bit rough and scary at first, but it felt very sturdy. My first impression of it was that of giant next. The thought occurred to me that maybe I should run  because if whatever lives here comes back, I would be in for a very bad day. But then I saw the little wold strawberry  patch. I sniffed around for a bit, but found nothing. Nothing but the smell of dirt and rotting leaves missed with intoxicating smell of conifer needles. I got still and listened. Again I header nothing but the wind, mingling  with all those tree tops around me.

I decided to give this spot a chance and settled in for a moment. There was a break in the branches when I looked tot he west and I could tell the Sun would have to pass through that clearing on its way to the sunset. I found a solid branch above me and fastened a safety tether to it. I clasped the carabiner  on the end of the safety line to a loop on the back of my suit. The line had enough slack that I soon forgot about it.  I let Abby know that my climb was done and that I was fine. That was our agreement. I promised I'd let her know I was safe and that is all she wanted.

Finally, I flopped over for a nap. I must have fallen asleep fast and hard. I don't remembeer having any dream. Next thing I knew, the breeze has gotten pretty cool and I woke up feeling the chill washing over me. The Sun, well on its way to setting, hid behind a distant bank of clouds. I got out blanket and wrapped myself in it. Once my butt got comfortable in the "nest" and I was able to prop up myself against the tree trunk, I was ready for the sunset show. I got a hold of drink pouch and cracked its chemical heater. The heat felt good on my paws. The first sip of the warm chamomile and mint beverage felt soothing in my belleh. A couple of soft biscuits made it a feast. 

INSERT
I grabbed a small branch, it was more of a twig really, and crushed some of its needles in my paw. Now my paw smelled like sap and it was so potent, it tingled my nose and throat.
END INSERT

Every time I took a sip of my beverage, the sappy scent of the redwood needles mixed with the mint.

The Sun began t peek from under the cloud cover an soon lit up the bottom of the cloud bank with red and orange. There was going to be nice sunset after all. Through out this entire "sitting the tree" event I wasn't quite sure what's going on. I felt safe and secure and felt  the tree trunk against my back. I've never seen or met this tree before, yet I had the sensation I had always known this tree. This was very new to me. The Sun was now moving quicly and hiding beyond the horizon. Right then, a thought occured to me. For today, this tree woould be done grazin on the Sun. It would have to wait until the morning before the nearby , medium sized , main-sequence star would come into view. I was resting my back agains one of the most advanced creatures to emerge from the universe. it was  feeding a nerby star! Above ground i was giant solar panel. Simply by being, the tree transformed its surroundings for the better. Whatever energy the tree absorbed, it gave it all back t its surrounding in  one form or another. 

As the star disappeared and the dusk begun to swallow our planet, a different light source slowly took over. The full moon was out. the night would cold, but it would be well lit.

And think about how clever the trees are. they don't even have to  worry about space travel to feast on the star. The big rock does it for them! This tree turns out to be quite the clever behemoth. and that's when it hit me. The tree was similar to the behemoth. I always thought that ship looked a lot like a pine cone. As the goosebumps were dissipating all over my hide, a message from Hopper came through.
"Did you see the sunset? I watched it from a tree; don't tell any bunny."
"No worries, I watched it from the top of giant redwood. What's your tree?" I responded.
"An old, gnarled pine. Not very tall, but extremely cofortable and pictureque." returned Hopper. 
I responded, "You'll have to come down here and visit. We can climb and site here together. The only better view than this is on orbit."
"Rog!" said Hopper.

The rest of the evening and the night itself were quiet. except for the bus and crickets, and owls doing their bits to keep the night alive. and the frogs, the frogs did their pat as well. I thought it would be too cold for frogs to be partying through a night like this. I cracke another beverage pouch to wrm it up. As I sipped it, I just let my thoughts wonder. At one point it was Dr. Hopnom's turn to take over my nuggin. 

The poor guy recovered well enough to become a terribly damaging "witness for the dfence." In the beginning, he wasn't supposed to play any role in what happened at the hospital. he followed the news about what happned to us like avery bun else, but he was busy with  his own stuff. everything changed onece he was asked to consult on cryo-preservation of living organisms. specifically, the kind that had long ears, four feet and were space-fairing. Suddenly, he was very interested in what happened to us, or to be more precise, what could happen to us next. He fundamentally distrusted the bureaucracy that commandeered his cooperation. Thus, he managed to talk his way into becoming a part of the crew on the resupply ship. He thought that if nothing else, he could disable the cryo-pods if he had a chance. Of course, his heart was in the right place and that's what matters here. Hen, his heart moved into his throat when the badgers lamed him for sabotaging the docking with the St. Cinnamon's. They were just going to blow him out of the airlock. Fortunately, he got into the airlock first, sealed the door from the inside even managed to suit up. that's quite the feat for  some bun like him. He had more luck than brains. The only reason he survived the suit incident is due to the fact that the design of the suit was so robust, it could function as a life preserver under the most incompetent of circumstances. As the doctor finished suiting up, one of the badgers managed to crack the the airlock door open. Our doc blew the outer hatch open. both him and the badger got socked out. No bun ever found the poor badger. Then, if your recall, the news buns, Penny and Freddie retrieved the doctor.


