X-Plus Bun - Retrofire, Pt. 10

As I was leaving for the astro-bubble, Hopper and Mel got on with the regular maintenance chores. We haven't left yet, but already I was starting to miss our little craft that became our home away from home. We would have to leave it behind. Settling down to another prolonged star-gazing meditation, I thought that maybe I was too quick to condemn our bunkind. Maybe it's not my job to try to save them from my hypothetical calamities? Maybe this is just another teachable moment for all of us and one way or another we will all be better for it on the other side?

The stars do that to me; I spiral down into a philosophical bender and I start to question everything and everybun around me. Then again, on orbit we don't have much to slow down our noggins. Back at the base  one could sneak away for catnip stogie and a carrotini, but here a bun has to make due with a deep breath.

I've been worried so much about all the awful tings that can happen to my crew here or back home, that I ignored the possibility of succumbing to insanity. That's as lethal as a high concentration of carbon monoxide. We have sensors for that, but somebun is yet to discover a RPM gage for the drama that can spin up in bun's head.  Sometimes that drama behaves as if it were something tangible, something so real you can almost touch it. It spins faster and faster, feeds on itself and spins so fast it becomes rigid. It behaves like a gyro and everything starts to turn around IT. Until it runs out of lubricant and your brain bearings cease completely. It cooks your noodle and turns it into glue. 

I waited for my favorite nebula to come into view. 

Finally, I let myself think about Abby. Until now, I did my best to pretend I'm fine with never seeing her again. It's how the biscuit crumbles; you accept that when you sign up for this job or you stay home.  Still, that's nothing but bun-made construct and it will never replace certain realities. How did Abby and the others cope with our disappearance? Did they have a funeral for us? How much time has elapsed on their clocks by now. What if my worst fears come to pass and we do get locked up a lab? Will she wish I had never come back? I think I wouldn't. I'm not sure which is worse, being gone or being stuck somewhere with a glass pane between me and Abby, where no bun can do anything for the other?

"Hopper, Mel, any ideas on that 'dead-bun switch'?"
"A couple, Major, we'll come up there in a minute. Want anything to drink, Toes?" responded Hopper. In a few minutes Hopper and Mel popped their heads into the bubble. Mel handed me a sippy bag.
"You know, Major," started Mel, "... our options are a bit limited. We could hide the remaining vessels from the Behemoth and have them start broadcasting a SOS signal or a message on our behalf. You know, just to tell our side of the story. To program the pods for some kind of an automated rescue mission would be too risky in terms of it having any chance of success. Somebun on the ground would have to get involved to make it work. We simply shouldn't count on that."

Mel was right, of course. where would we go after such a rescue; back here? In a sense, we are rescued from bunkind already. I said, "I figured as much, Mel. let's keep our ears up, though. Especially tomorrow, when we go to back into the Behemoth to get ready for the return trip."
"Of course, Major." said Hopper.
"We spent some time in the bubble without saying anything. I felt my mood starting to change from hesitation and confusion into the old and tried "Let's work the problem" attitude. We had a lot of work to finish.

Once we came back to the flight deck, we discussed what to do with our little training craft. Mel thought  it would be a good idea to send it off and hide it in the Saturn asteroid belt and make it a part of the SOS broadcast scheme. We would dispatch the pods from the Behemoth in the same manner. If all the craft survive long enough, they will start broadcasting unless they receive our "turn it off" signal. At least we will not be silenced.

Hopper suggested parking one of the pods somewhere on earth, but that seemed too risky and chances were we would simply lose it. Who knows if it would survive and be flight worthy after all those millions of years waiting for us. Once of those pods is already down there. I don't know where we could hide another so it wouldn't become buried in a coal deposit or get wedged between tectonic plates at the bottom of an ocean. Technically, we cold park it somewhere that will remain flat in the future and hope it doesn't get covered  up by too much dirt.

We spent the rest  of your day working on the numbers for our craft's Saturn orbit injection burn. We saved the last chore for the next day. We would have to get our suits ready for an extended EBA. We had to improvise an auxiliary extended  life support system. What if our "return" won't work? What if we found ourselves in a wrong time-space location? Where would we go from there and how long would it take us? Could we come back to here? I smelled another sleepless night ahead of us.