X-Plus Bun - The Copper Cardinal
It was still dark outside, but Molly could feel the sunrise was but a few degrees of the planet's rotation away. The birds were up and singing away, trying to get as much business done before the day would turn into a scorcher. She turned on the overhead lights in her workshop and sat down to testing her special sunglasses. She taped a tiny controller to a willow twig and put the twig in her mouf pretending to chew on it. As she tested the controller with her teeth, by pressing one of the sensors, something whirred and clicked in a foam cooler sitting on the floor beside her.

Molly sat in her chair and turned down the lights.  With her shades on and a  willow twig hanging off her mouf she was looking around the room. Every time she focused on a spot, she pressed the sensor tied to the twig and a pair of red markers converged on that spot. As the markers moved, something chirped and whirled in the cooler. After a few minutes, Molly got up and filled the cooler with ice, hoping to dampen the noises coming out of it. She took a sip of her morning tea and resumed the exercise with her shades and the willow twig.  The noise from the cooler subsided, but now you could hear the noise of ice shifting about. Outside, the sky was getting lighter and soon, Pancake would be up and out in the field, pulling weeds in the tomato patch. 

After a long while, Molly fell asleep in her chair, the willow twig slipped out of her mouf, and she didn't hear Pancake leave for work on their little farm. They were enjoying this little, forced vacation from flying. The Space Directorate temporarily grounded all the bunstronauts that were involved in the Behemoth incident. Thus, Molly and Pancake were making the best of it, and it tasted good. Tonight would bring another feast of homegrown fruit and veg. 

Molly woke up from her nap a little agitated. She didn't mean to oversleep like that. Molly adjusted her shades, put that willow twig back in her mouf and with both paws grabbed the handle of the cooler. Moving backward, she started pulling it outside onto the porch. The thing was heavy, very heavy, and Molly worried for a second the wheels of the cooler would break. But they held, and she inched the cooler all the way to the end of the porch and set it next to her Adirondack chair. The day was a scorcher indeed. The air was getting hot and sticky with humidity, and pop-up thunderstorms were growing all over the sky. 

Pancake heard the rumble on the porch and telescoped. There was Molly, struggling with the cooler for some reason, looking like she was pulling a block of lead. Pancake though, "Well, at least she's up," and disappeared behind the greens, pulling weeds, moning the better ones and inspecting the drip irrigation lines. Straight ahead, between her and Molly, a red Cardinal landed on a tomato take and kept looking at Pancake. She heard the flutter of his wings before she saw him and was glad the little guy showed up. He always did, rain or shine, he was there, the perfect companion to Pancake's garden toils meditation. 

Molly was glad to be done pulling that heavy cooler. She opened its lid and took out her chamomile lemonade. The glass jar was cold, and moisture began condensing on it right away. For a split second, she glanced at the ice in the cooler, sparkling with refracted lights of red and green, and blue. All seemed to be in working order. She closed the lid, sat down the chair and stretched out her legs. She moved about the willow twig in her mouf and felt for the trigger buttons. 

Molly thought to herself, "Any second now." As if prompted, the red Cardinal landed on one of the tomato stakes, straight ahead of her. Molly didn't move. She focused on the chirping bird. It kept moving, almost dancing, restlessly on the tip of the stake. Molly's heart rate spiked, and she tried to take a deep, slow breath. 

She watched as the two red dots displayed on the insides of her shades converged on the head of the Cardinal and followed the motion of the little guy. Molly bit down on the willow twig. 

Pancake was looking around the roots of the tomato plant and found a small dandelion. She flicked off the little red lady bug from one of its leaves and proceeded to nom the juicy green. 

She didn't understand the blood-curdling hiss that burned a hole in the sky over her head. She didn't know what that dull, little thud meant or the sharp crack that followed. Pancake thumped hard as the blast of hair singing, hot air threw her to the ground. She telescoped to see what happened and watched as a few red feathers were gently floating down. She heard water pouring out onto the ground somewhere behind her. 

Pancake looked behind her and saw water squirting out of the rain barrel through a small hole. She looked at the tomato stake where the Cardinal used to be. He was gone, and something was thrashing feebly in the greens. 

Molly sprinted toward Pancake, stopped by the tomato plant and frantically looked for something. Pancake stood frozen in place, dumbfounded,  shaking, and watched Molly stand up and growl triumphantly with the thrashing Cardinal in her raised paw. Molly hopped over to the rain barrel and slammed the Cardinal against it.

Horrified Pancake watched as Molly tore the bird apart and held its head in one paw and the rest of its body in the other. She used the head to plug the hole in the rain barrel, then immediately turned and hopped toward the shack as fast as she could. Furious, Pancake follower her as fast as her shaking hind legs allowed. Molly disappeared behind the door of her workshop. Pancake hopped onto the deck of the shack and stared at what was left of the cooler. One whole side of it, the one facing toward the field and where the Cardinal used to be, was blasted out and water from the melting ice was spilling onto the deck. A strange contraption inside was blinking with a few tiny red, green and blue lights. 

Pancake went inside the shack. There was Molly, with a headset on, talking to some bun, oblivious to the whole world. Molly finally paused when she noticed the smell of singed fur. When she turned her head to look around for the source of the odor, she came face to face with the infuriated Pancake. Startled, Molly thumped and leaned back.

They stood in silence interrupted only by the thrashing of the headless Cardinal on the table. Pancake looked at the little, mangled body and the tiny wires coming out of where the Cardinal's head used to be. There were wires and metal parts coming out of where one of its wings used to be. Pancake blinked and her mouf dropped. 

"Hold on, Freddie, I'm in a big trouble. " said Molly and her headset went quiet. 
"Our little friend here is a robot; they've been keeping a watch over us all this time." whispered Molly, sounding resigned. After another long silence, Molly continued, "Freddie was talking me through connecting the carcass to a breadboard. We're trying to figure out who exactly send it out here. Freddie wants to take control of the this little drone and to communicate through it. I have a nice middle cuticle in ASCII text to send back to them as a Thank You."