X-Plus Bun: Red Hop, Pt. 6

"We watched as the temperature rose and we wondered if the hot plasma is going to burn through the hull."
I pretended to gaze up toward the main control panels and the forward facing windows. In the corner of my eye, I saw Zoomer listening intently.

"Well, the temperature leveled off. Then we noticed how dark the ground was. We made our initial descent over an area still experiencing hight, and those parts were just pitch dark as if the power went out over the entire continent. But that was only the beginning. Pancake called out our nav system defaulting to a magnetic compass. We weren't picking up any guidance signals from the satellites. So the autopilot kept switching to the magnetic compass for reference.

You see, we wanted to go to this big island shaped like a bunn sitting up on its hind paws. The whole thing is one giant park. You ought to go there if you get a chance. When we got visual contact with the ground, it looked like we were in the right area, but as we got closer, we realized we would never make the island if we followed our current heading. Abby finally turned off the autopilot and went manual on the controls. We were pretty sure we had the right spot in front of us. There's no other island like that, so it was impossible to confuse it with something else. We recognized the coastline. From our altitude, everything looked right! Only the guidance computer kept protesting with a bunch of warning lights and chimes. Joey finally turned it off. Pancake turned on the panoramic recording of our approach. I have no idea what prompted her to do it, but it came in very handy.

At this point, we knew our little vacation would be no picking. The lower we dropped in altitude, the more dismayed we became. Where we expected to see the only cosmodrome on the island, we only saw a thick, primordial forest. To be honest, we couldn't recognize the place anymore, and Abby started to look for a clear spot on the ground. We had to put it down somewhere. We found a couple of hills and a bit of a clearing int he woods. Abby set us down as gently as she could on top of the taller of the two hills. We waited at idle for a  moment to see if the ground would shift under us. Joey had the shutdown checklist ready, and re rattled it off in a heartbeat the instance Abby called for it. 

Then we sat there. Everybun seemed frozen in their seats. No bun wanted to make the first move even though our diapers had to be full. I knew mine was.  Finally, Pancake wiggled out of her restraints and stumbled out of her seat onto the flight deck. Once the initial shock of all wore off some, a hopping mayhem broke out. A mix of pandemonium and emotional collapse in the like of an imploding star tool over us. The girls wanted to do something, anything while Joey and I couldn't get out of our seats. We were frozen stiff with fear.

Once we started to come to, Joey wanted to go out and have a look around. Abby yelled at him that if he touched the hatch, she would stab him in the neck with a tranquilizer. We decided that looking out of the windows would suit us just fine for now. Pancake and molly resurrected an old, rusty hoverbike from the storage area near the power plant. The thing turned on and looked like it was in working order! We drew lots to see who would get to go on a little reconnaissance mission the next day. 

As our stomachs settled, we started thinking about two things. How were we going to fix the cover on the landing skid and how in the hey would get out wherever we were? We needed a dry dock for the first one and miracle for the second one. We definitely had a pickle on our paws and not a picnic. 

Joey and I couldn't sleep so we took the first watch. OK, we didn't need to keep watches, but we stayed up anyway. We turned down the light on the flight deck and stared out the windows. We almost had a full moon and the night sky was crystal clear. We marveled at the woods a little downhill from us."

I stole a glance at Zoomer again. She was still with me; her nose kept twitching at a pretty good clip, so I carried on.

"Then we saw something come out of the woods. Actually, we noticed it when it was halfway between our ship and the woods. We sure as hay didn't expect anything t come out of there and when it did, our brains just tried to ignore it. Joye stood up his chair ready to thump, but I put my paw on his back calm him down. You know, it's funny how sometimes you stare at something, and it just doesn't make sense to you because you don't want to see it. My mouf dropped when I finally realized what was trotting toward us.

Finally, the light went off in my noggin, and my mouf dropped..."

