X-Plus Bun - Retrofire, Pt. 9

I didn't get much sleep that night and woke up very restless after only a few hours. Even before I had a chance to wake up. I was ready to go back to my burrow, but to my surprise the little "Aha!" moments kept on coming. When we first approached the Behemoth, and it beaconed at us on what looked like every frequency know to bun, from gamma rays to visible light, it was trying to transmit on all the frequencies it knew about because it wasn't sure on which one we were listening. It learned about us quickly though and once we were inside it knew that x-ray frequencies would not do us any good; literally. 

I felt sorry for the passengers of the Behemoth. Only a few survived the unfortunate with the epicenter of multiple dark matter waves crossing. There was only enough of them to deploy and land only one pod around what's know today as St. John, Nova Scotia. However, the ship's logs said nothing about their origin. Have they grown out of it or had it grown around them? Our lab coats will have to chew on this one.

I went to the pantry bay thinking maybe a snack will help. I got hungry at last. On my way, I passed the first-aid station, and there was Mel, messing about with the stasis-snake, a clever little device that relieves gastrointestinal stasis. The rush of adrenaline and hitting the sidewall hard when I grabbed a paw-rail to stop woke me up for good. Worried, I asked, "Mel, what do you want with that? What happened?"
"I'm fine. Don't panic, Major, I am making a ton of snacks and stuff. I thought I would get this thing ready, just in case." said Mel.

We got some reconstituted carrots, and nanner chips, a wad of parsley, a few nutriberry cakes and we headed to the astronavigation bubble. Mel couldn't sleep either; he was just too excited.  I, on the other paw, was filled with dread. So, I thought, "Maybe a little stargazing would calm us down?" Passing by Hopper, we watched him snooze. His eyes were busy under his eyelids and moved about rapidly. His mouf was working too, twitching and smirking, he was gritting his teeth a lot. We moved on.

The view out of the bubble afforded us nothing but the deep space. I placed myself so that no parts of the Behemoth were in my view.  For a while, we enjoyed our makeshift "all-you-can-nom" space buffet. I nomed and nomed until I  properly stuffed myself. I never felt so famished during flight. I had hoped in secret that maybe the next bite would clear my head about the decisions we would have to make soon. Of course, no such thing happened. I felt like I ate too much. 


"Mel, how come you couldn't sleep? You can't wait to go back, can you?" I broke the silence. Mel looked at me surprised and nodded after a long pause.  I felt a squeeze in my gut and looked away. I stared  into the open space trying to locate the barely visible Rohan Nebula.  A nutriberry crumb floated by my nose.

"We are going back, aren't we?" asked Mel with trepidation.
"Should we; just because we can now?" I asked in return.

I turned away to look back at the stars. I realized we would be better off discussing the return with Hopper.

What scares me the most now is the explaining of what happened here to our kind back home. Can we waltz back in and tell everybun, "Oh, you see, the ship is so advanced it teaches YOU how to fly it, and IT learns about you!" I think that's what happened yesterday in the Behemoth. First, it taught us what we needed to know about it and then figured out we don't belong here. Did it compare us to some quantum entanglement registry and realized we're in the wrong time-space location?

Of course, back home they will want to know what happened to us; on a molecular level. I don't think a post-flight physical will satisfy them. They will want to know what the long-term effects are. I am afraid they will want to keep an eye on us very carefully for a very long time.

The possibility of the ship doing the lesson onto others before they have a chance to refuse it won't help us much. We are the first ones; we will be the prime specimens, the "patients zero." I am afraid that our return would put our society to a test that I have no control over. I don't know what question they are capable of pursuing and to what lengths they are willing to go to get them. Is it going to be all "berries and nanners - we are so glad to see you!" or something like "... Are you back? How fascinating; let us have a look at you and don't you dare to come in any closer!"

I'm not worried about the public's view of us. We'll be heroes for a half a day, and that will be all. The suits, the lab coats, and the uniforms would see to that. It's one thing to debate how far we have come as bunkind, and something else to put it to the test on your own hides. They don't teach "society survival" in bunstronaut training. 

Should I be concerned about how they will use the Behemoth? Maybe they should wait their turn and develop similar technology id their own due time? Still, a part of me wanted to believe that no harm could come from bringing back home a space-time jellyfish like the Behemoth.

I felt sorry for the pebbles in the ship because it looked like they were very deliberate in picking their destination and died on their way to it. Had any of them come back to life, would our lab-coats and uniforms accept them as friends or at least as non-foes; even if  our kind were exposed to the same experience in the Behemoth as we were? I don't think I can count on that, not a hundred percent, and that's what worried me.

We have entered another sunset on orbit, and once it got dark, the starlight felt even more luminous. I turned around and this time watched how the Behemoth reoriented its energy panels. Deep space is where it lived, this was its medium. Mel was looking at the same show, still noming on something. I have lost my appetite again. 

"Let's check on our friend, shall we?" asked Mel. I nodded, and we turned around in the bubble. Hopper was out of his burrow. He had his feet in an improvised restraints on one of the walls and was doing bun yoga. "Downward Bun"  in zero gravity is not easy and takes a lot of practice, but he nailed it. He had his eyes closed and breathed slowly. A sippy bag of something slowly turned around by his mouf. We tried to stop quietly so not to disturb him. We watched him for a while until he finished. Hopper then rose and stretched out with a huge yawn and smacked his lips. Hopper opened his eyes and smiled at us not at all surprised, rubbed his belly a said, "I'm hungry. Did you guys eat already?"

We followed Hopper to the pantry bay. He was most appreciative of all the food that Mel prepared. I envied them their appetites. Afterward, we headed for the flight deck.

We faced bun another in a circle and busted out laughing. We could suit up and go into the Behemoth, reset our coordinates in its navigation module and we could be home for dinner. But, I had to state my case for not going back and staying right where we were, with Arthropods and all. I tried to entice them with the honors of seeding the first dandelions on this planet! We cold explore all the ancient flora first-paw! Or we could explore some exoplanets. We could do that and then come back to the same spot if we don't find anything we like.

Well, Hopper said he knew exactly what he wanted. His family was waiting for him and knew exactly how to get back to them. For a moment, Mel seemed to be on the fence about this whole return thing, but in the end he sided with Hopper.

Hopper said we had nothing to worry about. If we can't trust our own kind after all this time, then we have not advanced anywhere worth a pellet. This was but another test flight, just the stakes are higher. He insisted it's better to find out where we stand sooner rather than later. Testing the boundaries and pushing them is what we do to put hay in the feeder.

Hopper thought that once the lab-coats make it into the "control room" on the Behemoth, the ship will reveal itself just like it did to us. They will know what we know, no more and no less, and that will be the end of it. They won't weaponize the Behemoth or turn it against the bunkind. If meat-farm days are to return, it will be done by our paws, and this whole Behemoth affair will be no more than a single link in a chain of events way beyond our control. On its own merits, it will be but a footnote in bunkind's history. If we are that fragile, then we do have deeper issues than bringing the Behemoth back home.