X-Plus Bun: Red Hop, Pt. 5

We had spent two orbits going back and forth over the pros and cons of each option to lose the booster. It drove flight controllers mad, but they had to work with us. In the end, we came back to where we started, and we stuck by our original decision to wait for the probe to pry us loose from the booster. The best thing we could do now was to get some sleep. I set out to make dinner and Zoomer arranged to call our folks on the ground. She was able to get a hold of the little bunletts and provided them with a full report on why their project got stowed away early. They were very excited anyway and didn't mind what we had to do. They said they had plenty of data. The microorganisms exposed to the unfiltered radiation of open space showed an interesting reaction to the harsh environment. They metabolized the radiation.

Zoomer also reached her grandma and talked with her for a long time. I managed to catch Abby. She was glad to know we would be passing right over where she was in a couple of orbits and promised to wave at us. Even Pancake and Molly came by and gave us their paws up. Molly said that the weather was beautiful, the breeze was cool, and work didn't feel like work. They were sorry we couldn't join them. As expected, no bun was concerned one bit about that tuck booster of ours. Or was I missing some cues? Abby did say to Zoomer that come hay or high water; everything would turn out O.K. because I was here. She sounded like she was trying to convince herself more than anybun else. Our call ended when Pancake called everybun to hurry up because their sea carrot seedlings weren't going to drop themselves into the seabog. And they run off rather hastily.

I turned my attention to Zoomer, "So, Captain, is there anything else you need me to take care of before we turn in? I suggest we get some sleep. Tomorrow could be a long day." She mumbled something in agreement as she turned to get some sweet snacks to nom right before rest. She tossed me a timothy-nanner bar, and we crawled into the pockets on the couches. For a while, it seemed like the only sound in the capsule was that of our lips smacking as we put away the sweet bars. The doctors couldn't be too happy about that, but then again, they could do nothing to stop us either. "All is well before it ends," I wanted to gruff. I saw no reason to let the perfectly good snacks run the risk of going to waist.

Zoomer broke the silence, "This isn't the strangest return trip you had, is it? I read some of your reports, Major."
"No, it's not, if you're worried about this one," I said with a mouf half full of food and my tongue trying to clean out a particularly sticky piece of semi-dried nanner stuck behind my left upper front tooth. "To this day I'm not sure how we returned from that one, unplanned vacation," I continued while that bit of nanner finally came loose. Zoomer perked up, her ears straightened out at attention, and her nose started to twitch. "Maybe this not such a bad idea after all? Maybe this will help her relax," I thought for a second.

"You know, Zoomer, sometimes the hardest thing to do is to forget all about what's going on and to enjoy the moment you have." I started as we entered another orbital night.
"That one 'picnic' mission isn't logged anywhere, and there's very little public information about it. It's been classified for the longest time."
Zoomer's eyes were focused, and her ears were spellbound. I composed myself the best I could and went on.

One time, our crew decided to take a vacation together, everybun on the Buzzard. We had chartered an old, light shuttle and got a discount because we could fly it ourselves. On the way back home, we had to pass by an old heavy-repair station. At just the wrong moment, their time dilator blew a gasket and jettisoned and nebulae of hydrogen timeoxide. We had no chance to avoid it.  We braced for impact. The trouble was, we didn't know exactly what impact that would have. Initially, we thought everything was OK. We were coming up on deorbit really fast, so there was no time to dwell on what happened. We had no warnings go off, only a few circuit breakers popped. We concentrated on the landing. Then, Pancake got a high temperature warning on one of the covers for a landing skid.