X-Plus Bun: Red Hop, Pt. 20

Acting as one, we hopped off to the storage bay and pulled out our picnic supply out of the cooler. Surprisingly enough, nothing went bad. The lower salads and the spinach cucumbers were still good. So were the carrot sponges and nutriberry stocks. Ava and Penny took to preparing the beverages. I helped load everything onto that electric car of Molly’s and we were ready to go.

Pancake and Abby fired up the hover stand and went to get the aerial tour of Joey’s installation. I took one of our space suit helmets and programmed its visor to display data from our external surveillance system. I added to it the infrared surveillance data. We had to have some idea about what’s going on out of our sight. One of us would have to keep en eye the visor. It was either that or some bun would have to stay on the flight deck and monitor everything. So I set the sensitivity level of the surveillance system to that of a field mice.

Our little picnic caravan left the ship and headed for the “art exhibit.” Our original intent was to set up around the middle of the stone circle. First, we took turn on the hover-stand to a closer look at the installation. Every bunny nodded, himmed and hummed, there were oohs and ahhs as well, but I got the sense they just liked Joey more than anything and he couldn’t do much wrong. 

Yet, it was the picnic that got our attention again. It was setting to be a beautiful, clear sky evening. the stars couldn’t wait to come out and the giant, orange lantern of the moon was rising to the occasion. the spot we had picked seemed OK at first, but then the little voices in the back of our heads started to whisper. Almost in unison we picked up everything once again and we moved it into the open area, closer to the ship. the art installation would provide too much cover for anyone trying to catch us off guard. We had no proper mans to secure it and we didn’t want to spend the night improvising an alarm system against coyotes, badgers or what had you in those woods. and then there were the bipeds.

Joey started the festivities by dragging out the veg cart the bipeds gifted us. he lit up the flame thrower on the hover-stand and proceeded to crush the cart into splinters. And then he set the pile of wood on fire. It was quite the riveting performance, with smoldering ambers rising and floating away into the night and the crackle of the bonfire.

The supper turned out excellent even if the supplies were a little wilted. After all, we’ve been here a while. Hopmeric enjoyed sampling  the dandelion carrots and the sweet berry-cherries. He especially liked my raspberry pineapple compote. Joey narrated everything for him and I wondered if any of started to get through to Hopmeric. 

All this time Joey sat on the hover-stand and minded the flamethrower. Abby wanted him to keep it hot, so the pilot lights stayed on and Joey would let loose with the pyrotechnics from time to time. for a brief moment, the flames would roar like the devil gurgling with hot lava. I think Joey enjoyed it a bit much as he let out a guttural cackle every time he opened the throttle. He was making us all nervous and finally Penny asked him to stop it. He relented.

After the dinner started to settle down, I realized how tired I felt. The past few days were much longer than I thought. I stretched out on my back and let myself take in the scenery, the darkening sky, the moon, night bus, distant owns an all. 

We were all quiet when Penny asked, “So, Joey, why only a half a circle? you lad enough material to complete, small circle, no?” Joey thought about it, shrugged his shoulders and said, “I guess that’s the first thing that came to my mind. I just had to do something and I had very little time.” Pancake nodded and added, “It would be great to see what happens to it later, much later. I mean the sheer size and scale of those blocks makes you pause when they’re standing there.” Then Joey got a little contemplative, “I thought about carving one of those stones, but I didn’t have my antimatter chiseling set. It just never occurred to me to pack it. It would be a really interesting project to carve something on that scale. I don’t mean just an one off, large pieces of rock, but all of them. I’ve been thinking about it as I was arranging the pieces. Oh well, we neither have the time not tools for it.”

“Hm, it’s going to sound corny, but those slabs look very unfinished to me. they are more like blank sheets of paper,” mused Abby. 
“How about something like a series base on historical events? Maybe ‘The Chapters of Bunkind’?” I asked. 
“Neh, waypoints, the Waypoints of Bunkind,” added Pancake.
Joey looked surprised by all the attention and his mouf dropped a little, but he kept quiet for now. I kept an eye on the helmet and the colorful display on its visor. Colors of the little display went very well with the evening and I almost let myself forget that this was our early warning system against unwelcome guests and not a light show. The visor reflected dark sky and the green blue data displays made their own light show. The best part of that show was the part absent from it, the heat map remained cold.
“You now, Joey, maybe you could pitch the idea to the Global Warren Assembly?” wondered Pancake.
“Maybe,” Joey remained noncommittal, but went on, “The first piece would be easy enough, ‘The Orange Hair!’” Joey looked up at the sky and gestured with his paws as if stretching that hair in arch from the ground skyward and grinned.
“Um, Joey, you know that’s supposed to be the orange hare, not hair, right?” Molly chimed in. Joey looked at her perplexed as his smile evaporated, “What do you mean, a ‘hare’?” Molly tried to as kind as she could, “You know, the mysterious Orange Hare they talk about in Experimental Mythology classes.” 
“The only experiments Joey did in that class was with his catnip stogies,” quipped Pancake. molly continued, “The lore says, or at least one of them, that the first turning  point for Bunkind was some strange, orange hare that became different from every bunny else.” Joey looked at Hopmeric, sprawled out on his belly, napping, tucks out and oblivious to everything. His right paw was sticking out a little from under his chest and his toes were moving. Sometimes they would randomly twitch, then they would move up and down following a wave rhythm. I couldn’t tell if anybunny else noticed that, and I decided not to draw their attention to it. It didn’t matter, everybun did notice and they were all staring at him, yet no bun said a word.

After a long pause, we tried to return to the conversation about the “Waypoints of Bunkind” project. For the other pieces we came up with a few ideas we all agreed on. there should be the “First Grip”, the “Nutriberry”, and the “Splitting of the Carrot.” Beyond that we advocated for what was important to individually. It made sense to me since the rapid progression Bunkind’s  development had progressed in multiple directions simultaneously, we ha hard time deciding on what was critical to everybunny. Pancake and I voted for the discovery disapprovium. when we tried to look for dark matter in the universe and couldn’t find any, but instead we discovered disapprovium. Abby thought there should definitely be a piece commemorating the First Global Warren Conference. We nodded to this one. 

Beyond that we started reciting our own “Firsts” and somehow we generalized them to be important to Bunkind at large. Joey thought the first EBA, anybunny’s EBA,  should be on the list. He always felt like his first EBA was like another birthday. I thought it should be the first skydive. Molly thought the first flight that killed no bunny. the day she soloed in a little SkyHop-66 was a turning point for her. And so it went on and on like that, late into the night. Then Hopmeric rose up from his nap.