X-Plus Bun: Red Hop, Pt. 24

Author's note: During the last episode, the bunstronauts found themselves back at the same
time space coordinates that diverted them to their time travel picnic.
After their initial adjustment to coming back to life as they've known it,
they became anxious to leave their ship and blow off some steam at the hub.


I think Molly got the idea to open the cover to a service tunnel. She crawled in first and yelled, “Let’s go to the Snappeh Thistle!” No bun questioned that. We were glad to have some plan to grab onto, no matter how silly. There it was, our idea for the first meal, a beverage a place to visit - a cheap space bar at a repair station. Of course, we could not avoid what had to follow our docking; we could only postpone it. For now, that would be good enough. We would deal with the medics, doctors, and bureaucrats later.

We moved through the tunnel with ease, floating along and making minimal contact with the paw rails. The iris locks sensed our advancement and opened up early enough that we didn’t have to slow down at all. Soon, we arrived at the junction connecting part of the tunnel directly to the bar. We took that turn and shortly after, Molly was staring into the kitchen of the bar.

We started slinking out of the tunnel into the kitchen spooking the bar-bulldog-bun. He spilled something dark and red and was now trying to contain a big, blob of fluid drifting toward an air filter. He was too surprised to be upset as he gaped at us losing track of his spilled beverage. Abby grabbed a cleanup hose and cleaned up most of the blob. She handed back the hos to the bar-bun and said, Sorry about that, here you go, we’ll seat ourselves.” 

We worked our way through the kitchen very slowly. We’ve created enough trouble. The place was empty; maybe it was too early for it to be open? But then was on and we noticed in passing there were three other buns. We didn’t pay any attention to them. We swooped to and around one of the serving station and took up offensively defensive position around it. We were determined to hold this spot to the last bar credit. The bar-bun floated up to see us and took our order. He looked at us with squinty eyes, “Wait a minute, aren’t you one of the crews that flew through that cloud of cadmium-chrono-chromium debris?” He pointed at the screen where it fact the news of the explosion was front and center. There were a lot more ships affected by this than I originally estimated. The Regional Center had a difficult time coping with the catastrophe.  Perhaps that explained the confusion around our docking with the station. We nodded, and the bar-bun disappeared in a hurry. Shortly after the treat sampler arrived on a conveyor belt and the beverages followed. There was a lot more stuff than we had ordered and we puzzled. Maybe he confused orders? When the bar-bun returned, he announced it was all on the house, and he was really glad to see us. He said, “At least you’ve made it. Not like those sorry sods,” and he motioned with his head tot he three buns behind him. “Did you lose anybun?” he asked. “No, we all came through,” answered Ava.

I took a sip of my carrotini, and it kicked me in the gut. I think it tried to burn a hole through me. It felt good. Then I looked at the three buns by the other dispensary, and I got the chills. Two of them were students. One was a junior instructor. He was tethered to a paw rail and was out cold. His mouf was open, and his or her tongue was sticking out. The instructor blissfully floated head down relative to there companions. The other two looked very frazzled and were already three sheets to the solar wind. “Where is the senior instructor?” I asked the bar-bun because those crews were required to have two instructors. “Not everybunny was as lucky as you all,” replied the bar-bun. I gulped down another beverage. Now, two of them were out, and the third one would soon follow.

This was the sillies race against time ever. I knew the emergency techs and medics would find us sooner rather than later. Misery and boredom would follow. And sure enough, as I put away my third one, medics and security otters filled in. “It’s them, they are over there!" screamed Joey pointing at the three hapless buns at the other end of the bar. For a moment the otters believed Joey, but then they turned back. Well, we stuffed as many treats into our pockets as we could, and we surrendered.

What followed was mind-numbing. The doctors and nurses worked us over very well. They were most unhappy about our diversion to the bar. We were such wonderful specimens, and now we spoiled everything. Joey was ready to start punching out headlights. I told them they should be happy they got our diapers. We were tired, very tired. Unfortunately, out heads cleared way too soon and that did nothing for our moods. We knew that the debriefings would go on for a  long time, but we were done for the day. Pancake demanded that we are released immediately. We were released to go to our pods. We elected to stay together for the night, and we piled into a pod that was not the most comfortable one. It had a nice view though.

I can’t explain what happened next. Maybe we arrived beyond our breaking points. Maybe it was something else. Joey wanted to use the litter bin, but there was only in the in the pod, and Ava was already in there. Suddenly he threw her out and tried to pull himself into the small space. Ava would have none of that, and she smacked him. As she did that, she nicked Molly. That got Pancake upset and she was scraping and biting, white fur started floating everywhere. It was mayhem. We started marking our territory, but the urine only floated in every direction. As we peed more and more, the environmental alarm started heating up. It went from amber to red and audible alarm went off. The build-up of ammonia in the air tripped the alarm. 

Then just as suddenly as it started, the brawl came to an end. It was the alarm that brought us back to sanity. Suddenly, we turned to working the problem. A bunch of very distraught staff showed up, bent on intervening and using force if necessary. Joey told them to back off and give us some room to work it out. He had that look and demeanor about him suggesting he was about to make you eat a stogie and make you blow smoke circles out your keister. Pancake talked down everybunny and got us a new pod, a little bigger, with better facilities. The orderlies came back with some herbal beverages to help our nerves. We accepted them. Once we got cleaned up and ready for sleep, Penny turned down the temperature almost to zero. I snuggled into the sleeping pouch and watched the outside view. As the herbs kicked in,  realized how close we were to Hopmeric. The freezing air felt good. Not quite like the woods but close enough. It soothed the primordial spirit. I’m still trying to figure out how I feel about it.