X-Plus Bun: Red Hop, Pt. 16

"We looked at Abby puzzled, and Pancake asked, 'What lucky break are you talking about?' On the table in front of us was a piece of chronochromium dioxide that probably came from that cloud of debris we had hit before reentry. Pancake was not impressed, 'If you look closely at the hull of this ship, you can probably scrape off a ton of iron and nickel that came from that cloud. I still don't see how this is helping us.'

We became interrupted when we got a warning light on the infirmary annunciator panel. Molly didn't say a word and hopped off to check on Hopmeric. On one of the monitoring screen did a in fact show Hopmeric sitting up and trying to drink some water. His vitals looked normal. At least his temperature didn't point to an infection. He seemed tired and could barely keep his balance and finally stretched out with a big yawn and sighed. I thought he'll go back to sleep, but he stayed awake. Next we saw Molly enter the room and give him a good look over. 'He's doing fine!' exclaimed Molly over the intercom, her voice sounding scratchy and distorted by the old audio system. 

She  pulled out an alfalfa chew bar from a pocket of her suit and took a little bite of it. She put the bar next to Hopmeric's mouf, hoping he would bite. He sniffed and sniffed the bar for a while and raised his head. It looked like he was slowly working up his courage to taste the snack. He licked the bar once, then again and very gingerly bit off a tiny crumb from it. His mouf work ever so slowly. Under other circumstances you would think he's judging and savoring the finale of a cook off of some sort but his tired eyes pulled you back to the grim reality of this guy's life hanging in the balance.

We forgot all about the cadmium chrono-chromium for a while. Hopmeric took a good bite of the snack and started chewing it. He drunk more water and ate a little more. We watched and watched, quietly rooting for him. Molly checked around his bedding and rummaged for something, and presented to the camera a ... big, fat pellet! We erupted in cheer over the intercom! Poor Hopmeric, either embarrassed or startled sat up straight and suddenly looked very alert, a little confused, and not able to tell where all those voices were coming from. Molly stroke the back of his head to calm him down. He relaxed and laid down again. As molly turned to leave, Hopmeric sprung up ready to follow her! I shifted my stance from one foot to another and held my breath. Molly stopped and looked at Hopmeric, as if not sure whether to convince him to stay put and res or to help him move along. He slowly caught up with her before she could make up her mind and they worked their way toward the flight deck. We lost the visual of them once they were out of the room and it them a long time to rejoin us. Well, it felt to me like a long time. Once they arrived, we didn't know how to react and we just stood there for a moment, sizing up Hopmeric, I'm sure he was doing the same with us. Molly kept to his side and administered headrubs behind his ears. She fed him another bite of the snack bar and this time he took a nice, big bite of it. To break the tension, Abby decided to pick up where we had left off as if nothing happened.


That's when I got a queasy feeling in my gut. I knew what Abby had in mind. She must have noticed my grimace because she looked at me with a mischievous smile and said, 'When we get to orbit, we can inject it into the reactor and make it backfire. It will probably blow us up into gravitons, but going through the ensuing rip in the fabric of time-space will send us back to where we came from. We will be mixed with the chronochromium dioxide, and that stuff likes to gravitate toward when it came from!'

Molly thumped, Joey almost fainted, and I had to sit down. Hopmeric dropped a chew bar from his mouf as if he understood something. Pancake just kept staring forward as if she had seen a ghost of herself and didn't say a word. Ava and Penny, not amused, groaned. My legs felt a little rubbery. Would I have to say goodbye to myself? Would it be appropriate now to try and kiss my duff goodbye? Should I write a note to the other me, the one that is going to get reconstituted? Do I get a fresh start on that other, new, same old side? Can I tweak myself when I get reconstituted? Could I see my mum again, but keep all the stuff I've been through until now?

'... hey,' somebun was scratching me behind the ear, '... are you OK?' at first, I didn't recognize Abby. 'Yeah, I'm OK,' I mumbled. 'We've got no other options. It's either that or we stay here. I guess we could vote on it,' said Abby. Everybun around me shook their heads 'no,' there would be no vote on it. I agreed with them.

Hopmeric sat there, tilting his head sideways and thumping from time to time. Part of him had to know this would be no picnic for us. Everybun except me followed Abby to the engine room. They were gone for the rest of the day trying to figure out how to feed the chronochromium dioxide into the reactor at just the right time. I crawled under my couch and pulled out a titanium thermos I hid for times like these. I took off the screw top cup from the bottle, opened the pressure relieve valve, and filled the cup with the carrotini. I took a swig and showed Hopmeric how to do the same. The poor guy tried to get his mouf into the cup and spilled half of it on himself. He tasted the stuff, his mouf twisted and his eyes crossed, but then he got used to it and slurped the rest. I filled the cup again, and we relieved more pressure repeating the ritual. Hopmeric minded it less and less.

I woke up shivering in the middle of the night and wondered what had happened. Hopmeric was on the couch next to me, covered up with a blankie. I guess somebun took pity on him. He kept gritting his teeth, and his mouf kept twitching. I went to the litter bin and then tried to find something to cover up with. Before crawling back into my couch I saw a note in Abby's paw writing, 'You're patching the skin first thing in the morning!' I crumpled the note and tossed it. I just hoped my head would not try to kill me too badly when the sun comes up.

In the late morning, I got Joey to help me work on the skid. We collected all the cadmium chronochromium dioxide into a pale and cleaned out the 'wound' in the skid. That's when we got a proper look at the extent of the damage. All seemed to be intact, but we had to fill the breach in the bottom of the skid. Joey tilted his head and furrowed his brows. Before he could say anything, I blurted out, 'We don't have enough material to patch it, do we?' 'Nope, Major, we don't' growled Joey. 'Check the numbers to be sure, would you?' I asked joey, but he was already on it. In my earpiece I heard the noises coming from the eingine room. a high pitched drill or a saw. Somebun was benging something with a hammer. I think I eard two hammers, devastating something in a brutal rythm of two buns taking turns to swing the heavy iron on a stick.

'Stop! Everybunny stop! Right now ...' I screamed itnot the intercom. Things got quiet and Abby came on, 'It better good, Toes.' I looked at Joey and he shook his head in silence, 'We don't have enough patch material to repair the skid for re-entry.'  'What do you mean?' Abby responded. I knew the news sunk in right away and she was stalling form some reason. Not that I minded, but it wouldn't get us any more material. 'Well, you know,...' I started slowly and went on, 'we wont' be able to re-enter with such a ligh application of this stuff. It will ablate and the gear will melt, you know the rest.'

The impact was so deep that we used up almost all of the composite paste we had! 



Hopmeric sat on the ground and watched Joey and me. From time to time he would go inside the ship after Pancake or Abby, then he would hope out and watch us again. He went on like that the entire day. 

By night time we finished all the repair chores. The next day we would complete the modifications of the reactor, and try to leave this place. Once the loading ramp came up, this would be it.

We build a fire that night, right under the nose of the ship and we had a feast. Hopmeric sensed our time together was coming to a close but showed no inclination to follow us into the unknown. Before we went inside for the last time, Pancake looked over his wounded hock. There was no sign of pus. It appeared the treatment worked. We all noticed he started doing strange things with his paws. He was starting to grip. Will he mind the price he was going to pay for getting his, otherwise lethal, wound healed? Pancake scrubbed him one more time to make sure he wouldn't carry back any germs his kin couldn't cope with. He looked at us one more time, thumped, turned around and run into the woods. We put out the fire and headed inside. No bun said a word. I felt like crying."