X-Plus Bun: Red Hop, Pt. 13
"I had hoped Hopmeric would stay with Molly on the hover-stand and come on board the ship, but he didn't. Just as Molly was about to start moving up the loading ramp, he jumped off and darted away. It broke my heart. Molly stopped and by the ramp and we started inspecing the offerings on the cart from the bipeds. Abby was very suspicious of all the green they offered and insisted we don't touch anything untill we are completely certain they are not contaminated. We took samples from the cart and put them in a freezer. The rest, strangely enough, turned out to be clean. We found some bugs and snails here and there, but you would expect that. Indeed, the gift of greens appeared to be just a gift of greens. 

We processed the greens in a sanitizer and we had a wonderful feast. After all, the fair was so delicious, it exceeded our grandest expectations for a picnic grub. After the grazing we talked about the effect of today's show might have on the locals. 'If the bipeds start perceiving the divinity of local hares, I'm fine with that. Who knows, they may even make the same connection with the rest of the creatures here,' said Abby. Molly have here hopeful look and shook her head in silence. She grabbed one more stock of dill and nomed it nervously.

Next morning we started to arrange the stone slabs around the faulty lending skid. Joey would grab each of the slabs and set it upright. He arranged them in a circle around the skid per Molly's markings on the ground. It was a slow and painstaking process because he hat o be very careful not to hit any part of the ship, especially the skid. Abby again had to relieve him when he got tired. They switched places once more before the job was done. The hardest part of it involved placint some of the stone like cross beams on top of the upright slabs. Those had to be handled in a horizontal orientation and that pushed the loading dolly to its limits.  So we had to be careful. We only had one dolly and no spare parts for it. 

At last, we were done by midnight, and we were mentally exhaused. Some of us slept in the next morning. Ava and Penny wereup at the usual time and were kind enough to fix a big breakfast salad, made of fresh greens. Joey had a double serving and then wento take a nap. Abby wasn't doing much better. She grimaced from a sore neck an sholder pain. Pancake looked her over but didn't find anything wrong. It had to be tension related to yesterday's work. Abby put a heat pack around her neck and relaxed in couch on the flilght deck.

Molly and Penny prepared the landing skids to be manually controlled. We retracted them very slowly untill the ship contacted the stones slabs as it got clsoer tothe ground. Then Pancake disabled the retractiong mechanism for all the skids except the damanged one. And this one we raised very slowly so the weight of the ship cold be transfered to the stones. As we held our breath, Ava kept raising the skid inch by centimeter by centimeter. We heard one of the stones shatter, then another. I was getting worried that all this work migh have been for not. Alas, the rest of the stones held. Ava finished raising the skid off the ground and thenw aited. 

The slabs held, and we didn't hear anymore splosions. We waited most of the day to see if the ship would settle or not. We had to be sure  this stone support was stable. It would be an awful shame to go out there and get smashed by the collapsing ship. We watched and watched the instrument s for sighns of shifing attitude, but the indicator didn't budge. Finally, Joey volunteered to go out and have a look under the skid. His nap had ot have done its magin, because he was a rested and giddy as ever. He oped out in full EBA suit with he helmet on so he could stream the video. We had our glued ot hte screen.

And there it was. A gash in the bottom of th skid the size of Joey! Not only that, there was something wedged in the botto of the skid. 'Yeah, we're gonna need a bucket to collect this rubbish,' mumbled Joey. 'What are you talking about?' snapped Abby. 'This stuff wedged in the gash. Don't you want ot know what this is? We'll have to chisled it out from the skid. I bet it's compracted inthere pretty badly. Yep, looks like it,' Joey carried on.

I guess he grabbed my little hammer and chisel I sued to take samples of the stones and proceeded to chip off a piece of that material. He stuck the stuff once and a chunk of it fell to the ground. Joey picked it up and cleaned the dirt from it. He looked at the gush and shook his head. It was getting late and Joey went on board the ship. 

He came up tot he flight deck and put the sample in front of Abby. Pancake check it for radiation but the sample was cold. Abby looked at it and exclaimed, 'I think this is our lucky break!'

