X-Plus Bun: Red Hop, Pt. 11
"By the time we were ready to lift off, Pancake and Molly came back from the storage bay and strapped into their couches. We hit the bottom of the clouds pretty fast, maybe fifteen hundred feet, their tops were at about five grand. By the time we came up on top of them, we had gone right into the overcast again, and we descended over the clearing as slowly as we could. We went out of our way to give everybun on the ground time to get away from under us. After all, there were not just bipeds, but all sort of creatures, and lagomorphs like us. Or somewhat like us. Hopmeric could be there with his warren. I scanned the video streams of the outside, and luckily I didn't catch any welcoming comity. 

By the time we touched down whatever the bipeds had going on there was gone. But the slabs stayed where they were. The rest of the day was just full of physical, hard labor. We had a problem getting loading dolly started. Joey removed one of the power packs. It was corroded and kept shorting and blowing a couple of fuses. The good news was, Molly and Penny were back to their usual selves, at least for the time being. Molly did find a strange contraption in the storage bay that let her move about in the air. Joey worked the dolly, Abby and I used the scooter for towing the slabs. Well, we tried to use it for towing, but the stuff was just too heavy for the scooter. So we used it run the carbon line to the slabs so we could winch the stones toward the ship.

We managed to assemble most of the slabs before the day's end, and surprisingly we didn't get one visitor. The surrounding woods stayed quiet. When we had landed, we blew away quite a bot of the immediate vegetation. As much as I hated it, it cleared the perimeter around us, and nothing could sneak up on us. Thanks to the damp, cold, humid air, we didn't even start any fires.

We finished the day early once we had most the stones close to the ship. All we would have left to do the next day was to pull them in closer and then start standing them up. That would be the difficult part, and we wanted to be rested for it. As we ate supper after securing the ship for the night, we watched to see if anyone would come out of the forest. We were secretly hoping Homeric would show up. Of course, he was probably too smart to be seen in the open. 'They' had to have seen us land, but the forest kept its curiosity in check. We made sure the infrared cameras were on for the night, and we retired to our sleeping quarters. Only Joye stayed on the deck. He was convinced something had to stick its neck out from behind the trees, and he didn't want to miss it. I thought Abby would dress him down for goofing off when he should be getting proper rest, but she only said, "Sure, good luck with that," and she let him be. 

The next morning I realized why she didn't give him any hard time. Joey fell asleep five minutes into his improvised watch, and he was out cold when we got going on the breakfast.

We congregated around one of the monitors and watched the infrared recording captured overnight. And sure enough, the bipeds showed up. Only a couple of them approached the ship, but the edge of the woods brimmed with them and their heat signatures glowed like a sunrise! There had to be quite a few of them to give off this much heat. 

Instinctively, we looked outside, but there was no one there. And It was still misty and foggy so we couldn't see very far. Then, Pancake end Molly started to giggle. We looked at them expecting they would share with the rest of the class what was so funny, but pancake just waved us off. 

Well, had to get on with the stone business and so we did. Joey did most of the work this time because only the loading dolly had enough power to move and lift the stones. Molly and Pancake marked up the ground for him to indicate where each stone had to go. Penny and Ava flew the scooter along the perimeter and looked for anything trying to come out of the woods. The fog finally started to burn off, and it seemed like we would have a beautiful day. It would have been perfect for that picnic we never had. Abby and I stayed on the flight deck and kept a bird's eye view on everything. Abby switched places with Joey in the early afternoon and finished the job. 

Then just as we were cleaning up before securing the ship for the night, Ava and Penny sounded an alarm. Some bipeds were coming out of the forest, pushing something toward us!