Star Bun: Seatbelts

I almost missed the last sliver of the sun before it disappeared beyond the horizon of a smooth, solid, cloud layer. The white stuff below us started to turn ominous gray and cold.

Up in the front, the Young Bun in the commander's seat called for the initial approach checklist. The Younger Bun, sitting in the pilot seat the right of the commander, started calling out one item after the other. The Young Bun confirmed each item at they flipped switches, turned knobs and brought up different projections on the windshield. Finally, the Young Bun announced taking manual control of the ship. I activated my controls, just in case. I sat behind the Younger Bun, and Joey was to my left, seated behind the Young Bun. Joey activated his control stick as well and tested it. Now we were all participating in the approach and landing. In case of an emergency, any bun of us could fly the ship.

The Young Bun had to go manual. He wanted to get qualified as a commander, and he had a long, busy day, working hard with very little help from all those automated systems the ship had to offer under normal circumstances. But he didn't mind. He picked the Younger Bun, already a freshly qualified commander, as his teammate. As to Joey and me, they couldn't do anything about us; we were their "luck of the draw." I was there to administer the exam, and Joey was my backup and part of the consortium that would have to sign off on the exam. I think Joey just wanted to get out and do something. A random training flight was fine with him, especially when he wouldn't have much to do. But when the commander-in-the-making started to fly by paw, Joey perked up quickly and stopped gazing after the sunset.

The Young Bun was very sharp and calm and kept on top of the situation. The bored, nonchalant Younger Bun followed the orders from the commander mechanically, threw the switches, and turned the instruments disinterested.

The Young Bun called for the landing gear extension. The Younger Bun replied and activated the gear. My bum picked up the momentary vibrations of the ship. Outside, the craft looked like a giant, four-legged bug with a small body and long spindly legs with big, crow feet. As we sunk into the cloud cover, the ship picked up a little turbulence. The Young Bun straightened up a little more in his seat.

I moved my paw over the keypad and entered a couple of commands. Two red warning lights lit up on the console in front of the Buns. The Younger Bun called out the overheating booster pump on the aft starboard engine. The Young Bun confirmed it. A brief conversation ensued between them. The Younger Bun announced that this was an instrumentation problem - most likely. There were no secondary signs of a real problem. The propulsion system didn't sens any issues like a loss of power on the affected engine or any change in pressure in the fuel system.

The Young Bun and the younger Bun were too sharp for tricks like that. I knew that before I threw them the "surprise." The Young Bun turned his head toward me so ever slightly, and I thought he smiled. As the Younger Bun worked to clean up the "emergency," Joey glanced at me puzzled, as if asking, "You didn't think that would trip them up, did you?" No, I didn't expect something like that to unnerve those two. All that was left for the Younger Bun to do was to cycle the warning light to turn it off. He was a short little fellow of a bunstronaut, and at first, he couldn't reach the light. That was one of the less flattering aspects of this ship's design. The part of the console where the light was located was hard to reach, and you really had to work at it.
"Two thousand feet!" called out the Young Bun.

Frustrated, the Younger Bun hit the release button on his restraint system. He leaned forward and punched the annoying light. Exasperated, the Younger Bun notified the Flight Center of the incident, declared it a false alarm and turned his attention to the landing.

"Five hundred!" called out the Young Bun without taking his eyes off the course projection. We were feeling more turbulence now. Both Buns concentrated on flying. The weather proved to be as bad as the forecast predicted, but seeing it and getting tossed around by it had a different feel than mere reading about it. You couldn't see anything outside. We were in the middle of a blizzard, and it was getting very dark. The Younger Bun confirmed the landing site and the almost complete lack of visibility.  We all concentrated on the touchdown.

Once the first landing gear made contact with the ground, we had to have the patience to let the others find their way to the Terra Firma. After a moment, all motion stopped, and the Young Bun shut down the engines.

Even though we were landing in the Protected Zone, it was still a bush landing. We had landed on the side of a hill, and the only reason we knew that was from the dials showing the positions of the landing gears. Outside, swirling snow drowned everything, and our exterior lights were useless. Upfront, both Buns were busy securing the ship. Once they finished, they high-fived bun another. "Did we nail it or what!" exclaimed the Young Bun.
"Nice landing, that's some nasty stuff outside," said Joey and looked at me puzzled, wondering why I kept grimly mum.

"When is that snowstorm going to be over, an hour, two? I'll take a nap until then. Let's go outside later," I said to no bun in particular and headed for my bunk. I wanted to stretch. I drunk some water and let Abby know we were on the ground. I was trying to figure out how Joey missed that screwup couple of minutes ago? Was he really slacking off that much? It didn't matter for now. I grabbed the paw rails and climbed into my little cabin. I stretched as much as I could, dimmed the lights, and set the intercom to pick up the outside sounds. The wind howled unabated. From time to time, I could hear the communication sensors deploying with clicks and clangs, as the electric motors whirred. After a while, the "civilized" noises stopped, and only the wind remained.

I'm not sure how long I napped. At first, I thought I was still dreaming when I heard the voices of Joey and the other two Buns. The blizzard was gone, the wind was gone. I finally caught on that everybun was somewhere near the ship for the sensors to pick up their voices.

After a quick stop at the litter cabin and few gulps of water, I hopped to the flight deck. Orange and yellow light danced on the walls of the main deck. I grabbed one of the light-weight thermal suits and went to the loading dock. A few hops down the ramp and I was outside up to my chin in the snow.

They guys have started a nice fire and even saved me a spot. I think Joey was telling them a story or feeding a line. It's hard to tell sometimes which is which, because when he's trying to make a point, Joey really likes to load up the brush with color, so to speak. I plopped into my chair and listened as I grabbed a paw full of the fresh snow. It was cold and fluffy. I sniffed it but didn't smell anything to worry about.

"Say, Major," started the Young Bun, "... have you any stories about snow?"
"Methane snow? ... or something more exotic?" I egged him on with a grin. "No, I don't have anything that exciting to tell you," I sadly conceded.
"Hey, Joey, did you tell them about those two guys that landed inside the North Lands?" I teased.
"What two guys? No, I didn't," said Joey, puzzled.

So I went on, looking at the Younger Bun, "Toss me a chew bar, would you?" The Younger Bun obliged, and Joey handed me a cup of warm mint and chamomile tea. I took a bite of the snack and watched the steam rise from my cup. I started with a pause, and at that moment, there was only the crackle of fire underscoring the absolute quiet of the winter's night.

There were those two guys who went on a joyride in a ship like this one, only that was the "C" model, I think. They were trying to build time - fair enough. We never found out why they landed so deep into the North Lands. They had some kind of an emergency, and maybe they overreacted, or under-reacted, the short of it was, they ended up crash landing.

I paused and watched both Buns out of the corner of my eye, but they kept at least one eye on me.

When the recovery crew located their ship, they only found one of the guys. He was inside, laid out on his back with a bloody booplesnoot. Dead! The medics thought somebun had tried to administer medical aid to him, but that would have been hopeless. His injuries were too severe. Anyway, there was no sign of the other guy. The team searched the ship, the landing site - all for naught. He had vanished. When they inspected the outside of the ship, all seemed normal at first. Except the emergency antenna was only partially deployed. It was the old-fashioned kind where you had to crank it out with a pipe. It was simple, sturdy, and reliable. It was to be used in the last resort.  Well, it was only halfway out of the well. The wrench handle was still in its socket.

That's when everybun got worried. They started searching the area in widening circles away from the crash site. Eventually, a scanner registered a faint infrared signature some good distance away. Somebun thought it was a small critter of some kind, but it wasn't moving.

I paused again and noticed the Younger Bun was paying close attention now.

In the meantime, the investigators started piecing together what had happened inside the ship. The dead feller hit the console really hard and left some of his blood on it. The survivor, the commander, tried to help his pilot, but the comms were down. He soon had to have realized he needed medics. So he tried to do the next thing and deploy that antenna. Well, he was right to try that external antenna, but that was a two-bun job. He was supposed to have his buddy with him. The sad thing was, he didn't have to fully deploy that antenna. What was out was plenty to make contact with the Center. We think he vanished right there, in the middle of trying to crank it out.

Now Joey was leaning forward a bit, his eyebrows furrowed. The Younger Bun twitched his nose nervously.

So, the rescue team went to check that little "hot spot" in the woods. They discovered it was a shallow fire pit that was still warm. The heat signature came from a couple of stones around it. That was it. They started getting some heavy snow, and it was getting late, so the team had to abandon the search.

I finished my tea and asked Joey for a top off. It smelled great, and it tasted even better.

Oh, they had found something near the pit that looked like a piece of rope. It was more of a twisted twine than a proper rope or a tether. They put it in a bag and took it in for analysis. Much later, the examination of those fibers showed remains of the commander's tissue on it. Some say that the poor guy got snuffed out by the hairy beasts that supposed to inhabit the North Lands. It's all rubbish most likely, but the lore says that when they catch something that they never had eaten before, they play a little game with their new delicacy.

The Younger Bun was getting visibly upset now, he was starting to pant. Even Joey thumped. But I kept my poker mouf and went on to finish.

So, according to the legends,  the beasts would tie their catch with a rope, and then one at a time would swallow it, pull it up and pass it around like that. Until the bones fell off the rope!

Then I had another sip of my tea, "Oh, this is good, just what my belleh needed," I thought to myself.

Joey was looking at me, frightened and confused. He tried to thump, but his foot wiggled instead, and the spastic twitch kicked up some snow. The Young Bun shut his eyes tight and pulled down his ears, his mouth twisted with horror. The Younger Bun flopped on his side and played dead, feet straight out and all.

I set my cup on the ground and tried to make a snowball again. But the snow was very dry and wouldn't lump easily. I had to work at it. "So, my friend," I started slowly as I tried to press the snow and looked at the stiff and sprawled out Younger Bun, "I think you know what I have to do, don't you?" I tossed the flimsy snowball at the Younger Bun and got him right in the ear. He jumped up immediately.

The Young Bun figured out what had happened today during the flight and looked at his pilot with exasperation.
"That's tough," Joey started, "you guys did so well, you had the check ride in a bag. And now ..., I don't know, Toes will have to flunk you both. What a shame." Joey shook his head, but looked at me as if asking, "You're not gonna flunk them for the seat belts, are you?" My expression stayed frozen.

We called it a night shortly after that and went back inside the ship. I crawled inside my bunk, but this time, I kept the lights on and turned off the intercom. Then I put on some ambient music because I scared myself silly with that story. Maybe I've gone a little too far?

The next day, when the Young Bun briefed our return flight, he was adamant about carrying on as if it were a routine flight and not a busted checkride. Joey nodded approvingly. Earlier, Joey approached me to talk about this situation, and he wanted to give them a chance to make up for the seatbelt slip, but I wasn't so keen on that. It's not that I didn't like the Younger Bun. He was so sure of himself and was convinced that he was so good that he could do as he pleased and would never get into trouble. That can very easily get him killed. If that weren't bad enough, he would take somebun else with him. And that - he had no right to do! Joey agreed, of course. After a while, I said, "Sure, throw something at them if you think they can make up for the screwup. But leave me out of it."

I knew Joey wouldn't take it lightly, so I wasn't too worried. I was curious, actually.

I didn't have to wait long to see what Joey had in mind. During the ascent to orbit, Joey gave them a complete failure of the guidance system. Right when they had to make a call whether to abort to orbit or to the landing site. They elected to proceed to orbit. The Younger Bun, still acting as a pilot, worked the problem. Again, he had to reach the same are of the console as he did the day before, but this time he stayed put. I don't think he could have risen out of his seat with the G's we were getting if he wanted to. He grumbled and grunted, twisted and stretched, but stayed where he had to be. Finally, he had to loosen his seat belts monetarily, but he didn't release them. When he was done, he tightened them up again and called out, sounding both subdued, angry, and petulant, "Seat belts!"

"Seat belts!" yelled out the Young Bun. Then Joey bellowed the same. I played along and growled, "Seat belts!" Instinctively, I tugged on mine, they were snug.

Once on orbit, the Young Bun ordered a hard system reboot to clean up that simulated guidance system failure. Of course, that would also clean out the system logs, and those simulated failures would disappear from the ship's history. That was the right way to go if one had to clean up such an event properly. Joye and I couldn't object to it. That emergency was Joey's gift to them. I don't know if they noticed me cringe. "You all got away with it this time," I mumbled. The two buns looked at me, wearily. Joey managed to find a window and was already glued to it, waiting to catch the sunrise.
