Star Bun: The Invincible Guardian Bun

My vision went gray, and I remember my paw losing grip on the handle. I slid off the ship’s body into the sand. I thought that my eyes were just tired, there was no sand under my eyelids, and they just needed a rest. I felt thirsty, but at least I was now in the shade of the right front canard. I remember mumbling something about wanting water.
“You can’t have any water now; you drank too much already. If you drink anymore, it can kill you, Toes.”
Mom? What are you doing here? I thought.
“I was trying to help you remember the combination to the number lock. I think the next one will do it!”
Oh, yeah, that’s good, we’ll try it in a minute. I neede a nap; I felt so thirsty. My head was killing me too.
You know, Mom, the gravel in the dry river, it sounded ... it sounded like I imagined it would. You know, when I was slowly hopping here. My boots felt so heavy.
“You have to get up now, toes, you hear me? You have to try that last number.”
I can’t; I have to rest a little, just a minute, give me just a minute. I stopped minding event the headache. I stopped minding at all. I was glad my Mom came back though, just time, to help me.

Next thing I knew, I was drowning. It was dark and cold, and a metallic smelling breeze was moving my whiskers. So I wasn’t drowning? No, I was drowning. I felt it again. I thrashed and tried to swim and felt this sharp, stabbing pain in my left paw.
“He’s coming around!” I heard somebun yell, but the voice didn’t sound like my Mom.
“I was just moistening your lips, Major” somebun said. Abby? I opened my left eye. The pain was awful; I thought my eyelids were tearing apart. Looking down at me was the frightened mouf of Abby. 
“We didn’t think you were gonna make it when we found you,” she said in a soft voice and dabbed my lips with a sponge again. Somebun else tried to fix my IV. 
She continued, “You know, the lock shorted out.”
“Then it should have opened, why didn’t it open?” I tried to say, but my tongue was still swollen.
“It did open; it even managed to send out some telemetry data before it ran out of juice. We’re lucky we caught that tiny transmission. That’s how we found you,” whispered Abby.

I closed my eye and wondered if I passed out now, would my Mom come back?